.\" yum shell - Yum shell interface
.TH "yum" "8" "" "Seth Vidal" ""
.SH "NAME"
yum \- Yellowdog Updater Modified shell
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fByum shell\fP [filename]
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.PP 
\fByum\fP includes an interactive shell for conducting multiple commands or
sets of commands during a single execution of yum. These commands can be
issued manually or passed to yum from a file. The commands are much the same
as the normal yum command line options. See here \fIyum(8)\fP for that
information. There are a few additional commands documented below.

.PP
.IP "\fBconfig\fP"
   [argument] [value] 
   args: debuglevel, errorlevel, obsoletes, gpgcheck, assumeyes, exclude
     If no value is given it prints the current value\&. 
     If value is given it sets that value\&.
.IP
.IP "\fBrepo\fP"
   [argument] [option]
     list: lists repositories and their status
     enable: enable repositories. option = repository id 
     disable: disable repositories. option = repository id 
.IP
.IP "\fBtransaction\fP"
   [argument]
     list: lists the contents of the transaction 
     reset: reset (zero-out) the transaction 
     solve: run the dependency solver on the transaction
     run: run the transaction 

.PP 
.SH "Examples"
The following are examples of using the yum shell\&.
.IP
 list available packagename*
 groupinfo 'Some Group'
 install foo
 remove bar
 update baz
 run

That will list available packages matching the glob 'packagename*'.
It will return information on the group 'Some Group'
It will then queue the following commands into  the transaction: install
foo, remove bar, update baz. Then the 'run' command will resolve dependencies
for the transaction commands and run the transaction.
.PP 
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.nf
.I yum (8)
http://yum.baseurl.org/
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "AUTHORS"
.nf 
See the Authors file included with this program.
.fi 

.PP 
.SH "BUGS"
There of course aren't any bugs, but if you find any, they should be sent
to the mailing list: yum@lists.baseurl.org or filed in bugzilla.
.fi
