.TH "yum-updatesd.conf" "5" "" "Jeremy Katz" "yum-updatesd configuration file"
.SH "NAME"
.LP 
\fByum-updatesd.conf\fR \- Configuration file for \fByum-updatesd(8)\fR.
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.LP 
yum-updatesd uses a configuration file at \fB/etc/yum/yum-updatesd.conf\fR. 
.LP
Additional configuration information is read from the main \fByum.conf
(5)\fR configuration file.

.SH "PARAMETERS"
.LP
There is one section in the yum-updatesd configuration file, main,
which defines all of the global configuration options.

.SH "[main] OPTIONS"
.LP 
The [main] section must exist for yum-updatesd to do anything. It
consists of the following options:

.IP \fBrun_interval\fR
Number of seconds to wait between checks for available updates.

.IP \fBupdaterefresh\fR
Minimum number of seconds between update information refreshes to
avoid hitting the server too often.

.IP \fBemit_via\fR
List of ways to emit update notification.  Valid values are `email',
`dbus' and `syslog'.

.IP \fBdo_update\fR
Boolean option to decide whether or not updates should be
automatically applied.  Defaults to False.

.IP \fBdo_download_deps\fR
Boolean option to decide whether or not updates should be
automatically downloaded.  Defaults to False.

.IP \fBdo_download_deps\fR
Boolean option to automatically download dependencies of packages which need
updating as well.  Defaults to False.

.SH "MAIL OPTIONS"
.IP \fBemail_to\fR
List of email addresses to send update notification to.  Defaults to 
`root@localhost'.

.IP \fBemail_from\fR
Email address for update notifications to be from.  Defaults to 
`yum-updatesd@localhost'.

.SH "SYSLOG OPTIONS"
.IP \fBsyslog_facility\fR
What syslog facility should be used.  Defaults to `DAEMON'.

.IP \fBsyslog_level\fR
Level of syslog messages.  Defaults to `WARN'.


.SH "FILES"
.nf 
/etc/yum/yum-updatesd.conf

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.LP 
yum-updatesd(8)
yum.conf(5)

